Open Data Certificates I18n guide
=================================

Transifex overview
------------------

As much as possible the translations are stored in [Transifex][transifex], if
you don't have an account you will need to be set up by an administrator of the
project.

The British English text of the questionnaire is converted to 2 `yaml` files:

  * `surveys/translations/questionnaire.general.en.yml`
  * `surveys/translations/questionnaire.jurisdictions.en.yml`

The translatable text for the surveyor interface is stored in:

  * `config/locales/surveyor_en.yml`

The rest of the websites translatable text is stored in:

  * `config/locales/website_en.yml`
or for more complex pages that need translation, like the about section or
questions there are views in `app/views/pages` eg:

  * `app/views/pages/about.en.html.erb`
  * `app/views/pages/badge_levels.en.html.erb`

The English text is what is known as the `source` and is changed directly in
the code repository. This is then `pushed` to Transifex where each individual
item of text (which is identified by a `key`, determined from the heirarchy it
appears in in the `yaml` file) can then be translated into any of the supported
languages

Once the content has been translated it is then `pulled` from Transifex and for
each language it will generate files that match the `en` equivalents but with
their language code in the filename. As an example for the Czech language the
files updated will be:

  * `surveys/translations/questionnaire.general.cs.yml`
  * `surveys/translations/questionnaire.jurisdictions.cs.yml`
  * `config/locales/surveyor_cs.yml`
  * `config/locales/website_cs.yml`

This will not create the content files such as
`app/views/pages/about.cs.html.erb` those have to be created and commited
directly into the repository.

Country and language codes
--------------------------

The translation files are organised by `language code` which while often the
same as expected from the `country code` you can't assume that. Jurisdictions are
however per country so do use the `country code`

Ones to keep an eye on so far that we have are

<table>
<tr>
<th>Country</th><th>Country Code</th><th>Language</th><th>Language Code</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Great Britain/UK</td><td>GB</td><td>English</td><td>en</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Czech Republic</td><td>CZ</td><td>Czech</td><td>cs</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Greece</td><td>GR</td><td>Greek</td><td>el</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mexico</td><td>MX</td><td>Spanish</td><td>es</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Taiwan</td><td>TW</td><td>Traditional Chinese (Taiwanese dialect)</td><td>zh_TW</td>
</tr>
</table>

Required software
-----------------

In order to update translations you need 2 pieces of software installed in your
development environment. The Transifex client to `push` & `pull` the `yaml`
files and the Saxon XSLT processor to generate the Surveyor definition files
and the `yaml` translation files from the `xml` definitions of the
questionnaires.

### Transifex client

The transifex client lets you `push` & `pull` the translation `yaml` files
based on the configuration stored in `.tx/config`. If python & pip is setup then:

    pip install transifex-client

Will be enough. There is [more help][transifex-client] on their website.

You'll also need to setup your credentials by writing the `~/.transifexrc` file:

    [https://www.transifex.com]
    username = user
    token =
    password = p@ssw0rd
    hostname = https://www.transifex.com

### Saxon (XSLT processor)

On OSX with [Homebrew][homebrew] installed then this install command should be
enough:

    brew install saxon

Although it will require that Java 7 is installed as well.

On Ubuntu/Debian these packages should work:

    apt-get install libsaxon-java default-jre

Updating an existing questionnaire
----------------------------------

To update English wording update any of the `en` named `yaml` files and use the command:

    tx push --source

This will update the source translations in Transifex. You then need to update
the generated surveyor definitions of the questionnaire with:

    rake surveyor:update[GB]

To update any other questionnaire the rake task should do it all:

    rake surveyor:update[CZ]

The currently known about jurisdictions and the languages they are available in
is configured at `surveys/translations/jurisdiction_languages.yml`.

Adding a new questionnaire
--------------------------

The questionnaire is defined in `xml` in the `surveys/definition` folder.  The
questionnaire definition is broken up into two files. There is the general
questionnaire (`surveys/definition/questionnaire.general.xml`) which covers
questions from the General, Practical, Technical and Social sections of the
questionnaire. These questions shouldn't be changed or added to, only
translated into a new language.

Then there is the jurisdiction section which
is specific to the legal framework of a country. This is where new questions
can be added or changed from the default to fit in with the way copyright law
works in that country. There is one jurisdiction file for each country we
currently support. For example the Czech jurisdiction is in the file
`surveys/definition/questionnaire.jurisdiction.CZ.xml`.

The jurisdiction questionnaire should still be in English and will be
translated via Transifex, this is so each jurisdiction can still be filled in
or debugged in English by developers etc who may not necessarily know the
language.

### Set up the definition files

Copy the `GB` jurisdiction file and name it in the same pattern but with the
new jurisdiction name (CC in this case). eg:

    cp surveys/definition/questionnaire.jurisdiction.{GB,CC}.xml

And add the new jurisdiction by adding a new line to
`surveys/translations/jurisdiction_languages.yml` where `lc` is the new
language code:

    CC: [en, lc]

Then generate the new surveyor quesionnaire files using the `rake` task

    rake surveyor:generate[CC]

### Pull translations and test the new survey definition

If you have the application running in a development environment, with a
database set up. Then you can load and test the questionnaire:

    rake surveyor:build[CC]

Or you can just pull the translation files with:

    rake translations:pull[CC]

### Changing jurisdiction questions

**Note:** See if [Issue#1353][issue-1353] on github has been fixed.

After altering the jurisdiction xml file run:

    rake surveyor:generate[CC]

And push the new translations to Transifex with:

    tx push --source

Then after translating the new questions you can update everything again with:

    rake translations:pull[CC]

or

    rake surveyor:build[CC]

Custom content
--------------

To customise the about page for example make a copy of
`app/views/pages/about.en.html.erb` and name it the new language code. For
example in Czech it is named `app/views/pages/about.cs.html.erb`.

Then translate or write new content in the correct language.

Creating a Pull Request with the changes
----------------------------------------

From the `staging` branch (which is the default) make sure everything is up to date with:

    git pull

Check out a new branch to work on:

    git checkout -b update-lang-translations

Make your changes and commit them with:

    git commit -m "Update language translations"
    git push origin update-lang-translations

And then create a Pull Request on github describing the changes you have made.

Known issues
------------

  * The conversion of the xml survey definition to yaml generates some keys
    with numbers in them based on the order they appear in the source. This
    creates problems if a question is added or removed from the jurisdiction
    file. This is [Issue#1353][issue-1353] on github.

[transifex]: https://www.transifex.com/theodi/certificates/
[transifex-cli]: http://docs.transifex.com/client/setup/
[homebrew]: http://brew.sh/
[issue-1353]: https://github.com/theodi/open-data-certificate/issues/1353
