### Surveyor

The Open Data Certificate uses [surveyor](https://github.com/NUBIC/surveyor) to generate and display the data questionnaires.
We've changed the look, feel & structure to fit the site and extended it to support certificate levels.

Although all of Surveyor's functionality is supported - much of it isn't incorporated into the initial designs, and so hasn't
been tested to work correctly. Experiments with the demo "kitchen sink survey" illustrate that some of the question types
that Surveyor supports break the CSS, so please beware if extending the current questionnaire with other question types
- they will need to be tested and possibly need CSS/renderer design changes.


#### Deploying questionnaires

Any changed surveys can be generated by running a rake task:

```bash
# build all surveys in ./surveys
rake surveyor:build_changed_surveys

# specify a survey directory
rake surveyor:build_changed_surveys DIR=surveys/development
```

#### Survey versions

When a survey is updated and re-imported, it will be imported as a new version of the survey.

The identity of a survey is judged by the title (the string following `survey` on the first line of the survey dsl).  This is [transformed slightly](https://github.com/NUBIC/surveyor/blob/f90c38ff3ac29e9e9493bd2df3fa718393bd1f85/lib/surveyor/models/survey_methods.rb#L35-L38) from "My awesome title!!1" to "my-awesome-title"

With this in mind, be careful:

* that different survey files have unique names
* that changing the name of the survey might be painful.


#### Surveyor extensions

We've extended surveyor with some attributes for the Open Data Certificate.

##### requirement

A 'Requirement' is a bar that needs to be passed to contribute to attaining a certain level in the questionnaire.
This is not the same as being "required" - which is about whether a question is mandatory to be completed.
For the moment, requirements are stored in the questions database table as labels with a 'requirement' attribute set.

Questions and Answers are associated to requirements by having their 'requirement' attribute set as the same value. Thus; for every label with a requirement set, there should be a question (or an answer) with the same value set.

##### survey

* `:dataset_curator` - Identifies (by its 'reference_identifier' value) which form element should be used to populate the dataset curator field (currently `publisher`).

* `:dataset_title` - Identifies (by its 'reference_identifier' value) which form element should be used to populate the dataset title field (currently `dataTitle`)

* `:description` - Copy to be displayed above the questionnaire

##### section

* `:display_header` - Whether the header should be displayed on the header (defaults to true)

##### question

* `:requirement` - If the question is a Label-type, requirement is the identifier of an improvement that is recommended to meet a certain level.
The value will be stored as `"pilot_1"`, `"pilot_2"`, `"pilot_3"`, `"basic_1"`, `"basic_2"`, etc. With the part before
the underscore representing the level, and everything after the underscore uniquely identifying the requirement.
If the question is a "normal" question (ie: not a label), the requirement attribute is used to identify to the recommended improvement this question satisfies.

* `:required` - Whether or not this question is required/mandatory to be completed (it also has to be triggered in the questionnaire by its dependencies).
Any value in here will make the question mandatory, but it can also be used to identify if it is mandatory for a specific level of certificate attainment
(if this requires different styling in the UI) ie: `:required #=> mandatory for every level`  , `:pilot #=> mandatory for 'pilot' level`

* `:help_text_more_url` - The url to link to at the end of the help text

* `:text_as_statement` - How the text should appear when it's displayed on the certificate (eg. "What is your name?" should read as "Name")

* `:display_on_certificate` - If the question should appear on the certificate

* `:discussion_topic` - Sets the topic (and enables) juvia discussion for this question (accessible by clicking "Ask for help with this question").  The `:help_text` value for this question will appear at the top of the discussion page.

##### answer

* `:requirement` - Identifies the recommended improvement that this answer satisfies.

* `:help_text_more_url` - as above

* `:text_as_statement` - as above

* `:input_type` - alternative input types (eg. url, number, phone)

* `:placeholder` - placeholder text displayed in a field before anything is entered

### Translations

Questionnaires are able to be translated and a user can select the locale when they are filling them out.

To enable this for a questionnaire:

* set any alternative translations files using the `translations` method (eg. `:es => 'translations/my-file.es.yml'`)

In the translation file (eg. surveys/translations/my-file.es.yml)

* set the locale name with `es: Spanish` (where 'es' was the reference given in the survey file)

There is an example of adding a translation on [this gist](https://gist.github.com/benfoxall/c35ad597fd2c2d7fcdc6#file-0002-manually-corrected-translation-yaml-patch)

### Surveyor validation

A breakdown of the validation states that exist in the survey:

- `no-response` a field which has not been filled in, white
- `ok` a completed field (light green)
- `error` a mandatory field which hasn't been filled in, shown after trying to finish the survey (light red)
- `url-verified` a URL field which has been verified (light green with message)
- `autocompleted` an autocompleted field (light green with message)
- `autocompleted-changed` an autocompleted, but changed field (light orange with message and explanation box)
- `autocompleted-explained` an autocompleted, changed field which has an explanation (light green with message and explanation box)
- `url-warning` a URL field which has failed verification (light orange with message and explanation box)
- `autocompleted-url-warning` a URL field which has been autocompleted AND failed verification (light orange with message and explanation box)
- `url-explained` a URL field which has failed verification but has an explanation (light green with message and explanation box)
- `metadata-missing` the documentation metadata field, which has values selected incorrectly (light orange with message and explanation box)
